---
Date: 2019/05/14
Source: https://learn.zybooks.com/zybook/WGUC952Spring2018/chapter/2/section/4
---

# 2.4 Under the covers

Just as 2.3 went over the lower level software for your program, this will go over the lower level hardware.

## General terms:

<u>**Input device**</u>: A mechanism through which the computer is fed information.  
<u>**Output device**</u>: A mechanism that conveys the result of a computation.  
<u>**Memory**</u>: Stores instructions and data.  
<u>**Control**</u>: The component that commands the datapath, memory, and I/O devices according to the instructions of the program.  
<u>**Datapath**</u>: Performs computations.

## Display terms:

<u>**Liquid crystal display**</u>: A thin layer of liquid polymers that can be used to transmit or block light according to whether a charge is applied.  
<u>**Active matrix display**</u>: A liquid crystal display using a transistor to control the transmission of light at each individual pixel.  
<u>**Pixel**</u>: The smallest individual picture element. Involves 24 bits, with 8 bits for each of red, blue, and green.  
<u>**Frame Buffer**</u>: Where the represented onscreen is stored and the bit pattern per pixel is read out to the graphics display at the refresh rate.

## Processor terms:

<u>**Integrated circuit(IC)**</u>: A device combining dozens to millions of transistors.  
<u>**Central processor unit (CPU)**</u>: The active part of the computer, which contains the datapath and control.  
<u>**Instruction set architecture**</u>: An abstract interface between the hardware and the lowest-level software that encompasses all the information necessary to write a machine language program that will run correctly, including instructions, registers, memory access, I/O, and so on.  
<u>**Application binary interface (ABI)**</u>: The user portion of the instruction set plus the operating system interfaces used by application programmers. It defines a standard for binary portability across computers.

## Memory terms:

<u>**Memory**</u>: The storage area in which programs are kept when they are running and that contains the data needed.

<u>**Dynamic random access memory (DRAM)**</u>: Memory built as an integrated circuit; it provides random access to any location.  
<u>**Cache memory**</u>: A small, fast memory that acts as a buffer for a slower, larger memory.  
<u>**Static random access memory (SRAM)**</u>: Memory built as an integrated circuit, but faster and less dense than DRAM.

<u>**Volatile memory**</u>: Storage, such as DRAM, that retains data only if it is receiving power.  
<u>**Nonvolatile memory**</u>: A form of memory that retains data even in the absence of a power source and that is used to store programs between runs.

<u>**Main/Primary memory**</u>: Memory used to hold programs while they are running.  
<u>**Secondary memory**</u>: Nonvolatile memory used to store programs and data between runs; typically consists of flash memory in PMDs and magnetic disks in servers.

<u>**Magnetic disk**</u>: Also called hard disk.  
<u>**Flash memory**</u>: A nonvolatile semiconductor memory. It is cheaper and slower than DRAM but more expensive per bit and faster than magnetic disks.
