---
Date: 2019/05/14
Source: https://learn.zybooks.com/zybook/WGUC952Spring2018/chapter/2/section/1
---

# 2.1 Introduction

Computers as an industry is fast & constantly improving.  
We are living in the third tech revoltion, the **Information Revolution**.  
(The first was the agriculture revolution, second was industrial revolution.)

Types of computers & other terms:

1. **Personal computer (PC)**: A computer designed for use by an individual, usually incorporating a graphics display, a keyboard, and a mouse.
2. **Server**: A computer used for running larger programs for multiple users, often simultaneously, and typically accessed only via a network.
3. **Supercomputer**: A class of computers with the highest performance and cost; they are configured as servers and typically cost tens to hundreds of millions of dollars.
4. **Embedded computer**: A computer inside another device used for running one predetermined application or collection of software.
5. **Personal mobile devices (PMDs)**: A small wireless device to connect to the Internet; they rely on batteries for power, and software is installed by downloading apps. Conventional examples are smart phones and tablets.
6. **Cloud computing**: Refers to large collections of servers that provide services over the Internet; some providers rent dynamically varying numbers of servers as a utility.
7. **Software as a Service (SaaS)**: Delivers software and data as a service over the Internet, usually via a thin program such as a browser that runs on local client devices, instead of binary code that must be installed, and runs wholly on that device. Examples include web search and social networking.

|  Decimal  | Abbreviation |   Value   | Binary term | Abbreviation |  Value   | % Larger |
| :-------: | :----------: | :-------: | :---------: | :----------: | :------: | :------: |
| kilobyte  |      KB      | $10^{3}$  |  kibibyte   |     KiB      | $2^{10}$ |    2%    |
| megabyte  |      MB      | $10^{6}$  |  mebibyte   |     MiB      | $2^{20}$ |    5%    |
| gigabyte  |      GB      | $10^{9}$  |  gibibyte   |     GiB      | $2^{30}$ |    7%    |
| terabyte  |      TB      | $10^{12}$ |  tebibyte   |     TiB      | $2^{40}$ |   10%    |
| petabyte  |      PB      | $10^{15}$ |  pebibyte   |     PiB      | $2^{50}$ |   13%    |
|  exabyte  |      EB      | $10^{18}$ |  exbibyte   |     EiB      | $2^{60}$ |   15%    |
| zettabyte |      ZB      | $10^{21}$ |  zebibyte   |     ZiB      | $2^{70}$ |   18%    |
| yottabyte |      YB      | $10^{24}$ |  yobibyte   |     YiB      | $2^{80}$ |   21%    |
