---
Date: 2019/05/22
Source: https://learn.zybooks.com/zybook/WGUC952Spring2018/chapter/3/section/12
---

# 3.12 Translating and starting a program

<u>Steps in creating an executable from C file</u>

1. <u>**Compiler**</u>: Takes the C file and translates it into assembly code.
2. <u>**Assembler**</u>: Takes the assembly code and translates it into machine code.
3. <u>**Linker**</u>: Finds references to other procedures needed for code to run, and links all references together.
4. <u>**Loader**</u>: Reads the executable file, allocates the memory needed for it to run and adds it to system memory.

Dynamic Linked Libraries (DLL) are procedures that are not assembled into the execuatble but instead are called when needed from external sources.

- This allows for larger often called libraries (think C standard library) to be referenced from one location so it only needs to be updated from one locations.

## Steps for **Linker**

1. Place code and data modules symbolically in memory.
2. Determine the addresses of data and instruction labels.
3. Patch both the internal and external references.

## Steps for **Loader**

1. Reads the executable file header to determine size of the text and data segments.
2. Creates an address space large enough for the text and data.
3. Copies the instructions and data from the executable file into memory.
4. Copies the parameters (if any) to the main program onto the stack.
5. Initializes the processor registers and sets the stack pointer to the first free location.
6. Branches to a start-up routine that copies the parameters into the argument registers and calls the main routine of the program. When the main routine returns, the start-up routine terminates the program with an exit system call.
