---
Date: 2019/05/19
Source: https://learn.zybooks.com/zybook/WGUC952Spring2018/chapter/3/section/8
---

# 3.8 Supporting procedures in computer hardware

## Procedures

A procedure is like a function in C. It will perform a very particular task with values passed into it.  
The instructions BR LR will return to the part of the insturctions after the procedure is completed.  
In LEGv8, "argument" registers X0-X7 are for passing parameters.  
The state of memory/registers before and after the procedure call is identical. Proecdures "leave no trace".

<u>**Procedure**</u>: A stored subroutine that performs a specific task based on the parameters with which it is provided.  
<u>**Branch-and-link instruction**</u>: An instruction that branches to an address and simultaneously saves the address of the following instruction in a register (LR or X30 in LEGv8).  
<u>**Return address**</u>: A link to the calling site that allows a procedure to return to the proper address; in LEGv8 it is stored in register LR (X30).  
<u>**Caller**</u>: The program that instigates a procedure and provides the necessary parameter values.  
<u>**Callee**</u>: A procedure that executes a series of stored instructions based on parameters provided by the caller and then returns control to the caller.  
<u>**Program counter (PC)**</u>: The register containing the address of the instruction in the program being executed.

## Stack

Stacks "grow" from higher addresses to lower addresses.  
The BL instruction stores the return address in register LR, and then branches to the target address.  
LEGv8 allows a procedure to modify registers X9-X17 without saving those registers to the stack and restoring those registers upon returning.

<u>**Stack**</u>: A data structure for spilling registers organized as a last-in- first-out queue.  
<u>**Stack pointer**</u>: A value denoting the most recently allocated address in a stack that shows where registers should be spilled or where old register values can be found. In LEGv8, it is register SP.  
<u>**Push**</u>: Add element to stack.  
<u>**Pop**</u>: Remove element from stack.

## Nested Procedures

A **Leaf procedure** is one that doesn't call other procedures.

## Adding space to stack

All of the saved registers and local variables for a procedure call are referred to as an activation record.  
Local variables v and w saved to the stack can be accessed as offsets from the frame pointer.

<u>**Procedure frame/activation record**</u>: The segment of the stack containing a procedure's saved registers and local variables.  
<u>**Frame pointer**</u>: A value denoting the location of the saved registers and local variables for a given procedure.

## Adding space to the heap

Heaps are normally used for dynamic memory such as arrays.  
The heap typically grows upwards in memory, while the stack grows downwards.

- Such an approach allows either the stack or heap to grow to be very large in available memory, without having to decide beforehand how much of that memory will be reserved for stack and how much for heap.

If a program allocated huge arrays, the program may cause the heap to run into the stack, causing an error.  
If a program has a procedure P that calls itself recursively, and a bug causes P to just keep calling itself recursively without end, eventually the stack will run into the heap, causing an error.
