---
Date: 2019/05/27
Source: https://learn.zybooks.com/zybook/WGUC952Spring2018/chapter/5/section/3
---

# 5.3 Building a datapath

<u>**Datapath element**</u>: A unit used to operate on or hold data within a processor. In the LEGv8 implementation, the datapath elements include the instruction and data memories, the register file, the ALU, and adders.

<u>**Program counter (PC)**</u>: The register containing the address of the instruction in the program being executed.

When the PC is accessed, it will simultaneously increment the counter by 4 to be prepared to grab the next instruction.

<u>**Register file**</u>: A state element that consists of a set of registers that can be read and written by supplying a register number to be accessed.

Register File:  
The register file always outputs the two registers' values for the two input read addresses.  
The register file writes to one register if the RegWrite value = 1.  
The design can read from two registers and write to one register during the same clock cycle.

<u>**Sign-extend**</u>: To increase the size of a data item by replicating the high-order sign bit of the original data item in the high-order bits of the larger, destination data item.

<u>**Branch target address**</u>: The address specified in a branch, which becomes the new program counter (PC) if the branch is taken. In the LEGv8 architecture, the branch target is given by the sum of the offset field of the instruction and the address of the branch.  
<u>**Branch taken**</u>: A branch where the branch condition is satisfied and the program counter (PC) becomes the branch target. All unconditional branches are taken branches.  
<u>**Branch not taken**</u>: A branch where the branch condition is false and the program counter (PC) becomes the address of the instruction that sequentially follows the branch.
