---
Date: 2019/06/04
Source: https://learn.zybooks.com/zybook/WGUC952Spring2018/chapter/6/section/2
---

# 6.2 Memory technologies

**4 Types of memory**:

1. <u>**SRAM (static)**</u>: Used in cache. Fast, expensive, lower capacity.
2. <u>**DRAM (dynamic)**</u>: System memory (RAM sticks).
3. <u>**FLASH memory**</u>: Secondary memory used in mobile devices / SSD's.
4. <u>**Magnetic Disk**</u>: Super Cheap, holds a ton, slow. Used for storing large amounts of data that's not often accessed.

## SRAM questions:

SRAM is found on the CPU as the cache.  
DRAM fewer transistors per bit of memory compared to SRAM.  
DRAM requires periodic refresh. SRAM is very stable.

## DRAM questions:

Modern DRAMS are organized in **banks**. Each bank consists of a series of **rows**.  
DRAMs enable fast access to data by transferring bits in bursts. Successive bits are transferred on each **clock edge**.

## FLASH questions:

Flash memory is a type of electrically erasable programmable read-only memory **(EEPROM)**.  
Unlike disks and DRAM, writes wear out flash.  
To cope with wear, a controller is included to remap blocks that are accessed often in a process called **wear leveling**.

## DISK questions:

Magnetic HDD consist of a colletion of rotating platters.  
Each disk is divided into circles called **tracks**. Each track is divided into **sectors**.  
In a magnetic disk, sequential block numbers may be on different tracks. This speeds up read time.

<u>**Seek time**</u>: The time required to move the head to the desired track.  
<u>**Rotational latency**</u>: The time required for the desired sector to rotate under the head.  
<u>**Transfer time**</u>: The time required to transfer a block of bits.
